This directory contains the Bison parser generator.

To compile it on Unix-like systems:

1.  Type `./configure'.  This shell script attempts to guess correct
values for various system-dependent variables used during compilation,
and creates the file `Makefile'.  This takes half a minute or so.

If you want to compile in a different directory from the one
containing the source code, `cd' to that directory and run `configure'
with the option `+srcdir=DIR', where DIR is the directory that
contains the source code.  The object files and executables will be
put in the current directory.  This option only works with versions of
`make' that support the VPATH variable.  `configure' ignores any other
arguments you give it.

If your system requires unusual options for compilation or linking
that `configure' doesn't know about, you can give `configure' initial
values for variables by setting them in the environment; in
Bourne-compatible shells, you can do that on the command line like
this:
$ CC='gcc -traditional' LIBS=-lposix ./configure

2.  If you want to change the directories where Bison or its parsers
or documentation will be installed, or the optimization options, edit
`Makefile' and change those values.  If you have an unusual system
that needs special compilation options that `configure' doesn't know
about, and you didn't pass them in the environment when running
`configure', you should add them to `Makefile' now.  Alternately,
teach `configure' how to figure out that it is being run on a system
where they are needed, and mail the diffs to the address listed at the
end of this file so we can include them in the next release.

3.  Type `make'.

4.  If the program compiles successfully, type `make install' to
install it and its parsers and documentation.

5.  After you have installed the program, you can remove the binary
from the source directory by typing `make clean'.  Type `make
distclean' if you also want to remove `Makefile', for instance if you
are going to recompile Bison next on another type of machine.

It was once true that, when installing Bison on Sequent (or Pyramid?)
systems, you had to be in the Berkeley universe.  This may no longer
be true; we have no way to tell.

On VMS, you will probably have to create Makefile from Makefile.in by
hand.  Remember to do `SET COMMAND BISON' to install the data in
`BISON.CLD'.

Send bug reports to bug-gnu-utils@prep.ai.mit.edu.  Please include the
version number from `bison +version', and a complete, self-contained
test case in each bug report.
